From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
all weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four Oh two recorded
live Thursday, December 12th, 2013. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by Tellerik offering
the best in developer tools
and support online@tlerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of
gesture pad, a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details. Add gesture, pak.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Heidi Hariri about making software
for the greater good. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'm here in
Australia, actually at the Yale
conference in Sydney at the
university of new South Wales.
And I'm sitting with a
hotter Hillary, how are you?
I'm good. Thanks for calling.
How are you doing? Pretty
good. Doing pretty good. You
gave your talk earlier today
and I hear that it
went very well and that's
exciting. Yeah. Yeah, it was
good. That's good. Good, good.
And we're both gonna go
home soon. I know we
were definitely looking for after
two weeks being out here.
It's so fun to go
home. I'm ready to go.
Now, you and I were
talking yesterday and you had
some, some ideas that you
seem really excited about and
I said, well, we need
to stop talking and start
recording. Yeah. So now we're
here. Yeah. What do you
got? So, yeah, I mean,
this is, this is it's,
it's something that I've been
thinking about for a while,
right? I was, I mean,
I'll give you a little
bit of a background. I
did. I gave a talk
in DDD, Brisbane that we're
here now, you know, when
we're in Brisbane and the,
the title of the talk
was developing in a decade
and the talk came out
of a couple of months
ago. They, they ping me
from a conference in Norway,
Trondheim develop conference to give
a keynote there. And they
said, you know, talk about
the trends in 2018. And,
you know, I started to
think like, I mean, I've
been having this thoughts in
the back of my mind
about where we're heading as
an industry. And I kind
of focus the, talk more
around my, my thoughts around
where we're heading as an
industry, as opposed to where
we're heading from a technical
perspective. Right. And it was,
it was around the idea
of, you know, what are
we doing us as developers
in, in, in ways of
improving the world? You know?
I mean, you hear day
and night that the startup
culture and the startups, and,
you know, in the Valley
and everything, they're like getting
these venture capitalism and venture
capital money and investments to
invent ways to, for people
to communicate and to do
great things. I mean, you
hear about Instagram, you hear
about all of these things,
right. And you start to
think like, okay, how exactly,
you know, are these companies
Well, I mean, they're just
making it easier for teenagers
to share pictures, I guess.
Yeah. So, you know, and,
but it's become like, you
look at like, you know,
Apple or Steve jobs. Right.
You know, with the iPhone.
Yeah. He absolutely did change
the world. Oh yeah, he
did. But my, what, what
I started to say, ask
myself is the, the why,
right. Because you think of
the, the watt, you know,
we know how to do
things. You think of the,
how, you know, what to
do things, you know, how
to do things, but you,
I think we've forgotten the
why. Like, why is it
that we're doing some things
that we're doing? And then
these kinds of thoughts were
combined with, you know, over
the last decade or so,
I mean, remember how we
had the industrial revolution. Right.
And they said, well, you're
going to increase productivity. Right.
So, you know, people are
going to spend less time
doing repetitive work. And the,
the industry is going to,
you know, industrial revolution promoted
the, you know, working faster
and better, more efficiently, and
it would create more jobs.
And lately I'm thinking like,
are we creating more jobs
with our industry or are
we destroying jobs at a
faster rate than we are
creating? And it still seems
like in some, even in
the glamorous world of software
engineering, there's a whole class
of developer. That's really just
doing repetitive work. Yeah. Just
snapping things together. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. So, you know, combining
that, combining, you know, that
idea of are we actually
creating more jobs, combining the
idea of, you know, now
with all of the things
that are going on with
the internet and, you know,
the whole spying and keeping
an eye on us and
stuff like that. And I
just started to wonder like,
where, where the hell are
we heading? You know, just
where are we heading? Well,
it does make one wonder
if we've kind of lost
our way, like as a,
as a culture when, I
mean culture, I mean, humankind.
Yeah. What exactly are we
trying to accomplish here? It
seems like, you know, there's
Western culture, which is really
much trying to worry about
oneself and one's family. So
there's kind of these circles
of influence there's myself. There's
my family is my extended
family and this my neighborhood,
we always talk about it
in the States, at least
about how we don't know
our neighbors anymore. Yeah. I
think about all of the
things that are happening in
America that are enabling me
to have a better life,
but I don't really think
about whether, what my actions
or the things that I
work on, make my life
better for my neighbors, my
community, things like that. Yeah.
And then you hear about
places, like, is it, was
it Tibet? Who, who what's
the place with the national
happiness index? Like the present?
Oh, it was Macedonia. I
think it was like, really,
I'm not like Nepal or
to pet it, but you
know what I'm saying? That
was someone who has a
national happiness index. And they
like at the highest levels
of government, they're like, are
we happy as a country?
You know what I mean?
Oh, then it wasn't mine.
No. I saw a recent
poll that Macedonia was like
the, the friendliest, nicest place
in the world live really.
Yeah. And then they, so
they do, they clearly must
be doing something. Right. Yeah.
And they're focusing on doing
the right thing. It also
makes one think about all
of all the people in
the Bay that are doing,
like I said, photo sharing
and things like that. But
then the platforms that we've
forgotten about, like, there's, ,
I think it's a, it's
a platform for sharing information
in Africa for getting information
about getting out the vote,
getting out information about, you
know, how to connect people
who have low bandwidth and
all those kinds of things.
Those are small projects with
small budgets, even tiny Instagram
is a billion dollars and
projects like shoddy, or like
there's a, there's a really
great project run by Martin
Benjamin. That's setting up a,
a universal African language dictionary
so that people can translate
with SMS. They have a
question about a dictionary word
and they can translate between
Swahili and Zulu or English
and whatever their budgets are
measuring the thousands of dollars.
But, and that's, that's, that's
where I started to look
at. Right. Because I started
to think, okay, we have,
I mean, you know, this,
it was like a whole
combination of things that were
coming in at the same
time for me. Right. Thinking
about what it is that
we're doing. I mean, you
know, I got into this
and I seen them into
the vast majority of people
got into this and into,
you know, computers because I
started to love solving problems.
And then when I started
to see how, the way
I was solving problems was
actually helping people get their
job done faster. Okay. Quite
superficial or whatever you have.
But I started to say,
this is cool. I can
actually sense a little bit
of like, you know, happiness
in someone, because what I've
done is kind of helped
them. Right. So this combined
with, you know, where are
we heading? I mean, I'm,
you know, I, you know,
me, I live in Spain
and Spain right now, the
econ, the financial crisis has
really taken a battering. And,
you know, there's, I see
so many homeless. I see
so many people in it
with, with, with problems and,
and that, and it's just
all started to come together.
And then there was, there
was this other factor, which
was the internet of the
social networks and so much
information, you know, we are,
we are being bombarded by
information. Right. And I recently
read a book, which was,
it was called amusing ourselves
to death. Right. Which is
by Neil postman. And this
was back in 1994. And
he was saying basically how,
I mean, you've all heard.
We've all heard of, He
wrote it in 84 and
84. Okay. I don't, I
I'm interested to hear what
this is about, but even
the title is quite prescient.
Yeah. You know what I
mean? And by the way,
before I forget exactly OSHA
Hedy is that the open
source system in Africa, I
was thinking about, so Neil
postman wrote this book, Call
them using ourselves to death.
And the idea will behind
it, he was, he was
attacking the, the, like the
TV basically. Right. And he
was saying, how in, in
particular American society as has
been promoting this entertainment or
infotainment as you will on
TV, you know what I
mean, basically what he said
with the Telegraph, you started
to become aware of things
that had absolutely no relevance
for you. You know, somewhere
across the other side of
America, something had happened. And
it started to come out
in like news daily news,
you know? And, and he,
you, you look at the
news today and they say,
you know, that the, the
reporter, the journalists are like,
know, 7,000 people have died
in a flood in, in
Africa and now for something
completely In other news, no
Americans were killed. Yeah. And
you know, Justin, Bieber's coming
to town, You know, one
of the most dramatic. And
again, I'm speaking from an
American perspective and you're speaking
from someone who lives in
Spain, but one of the
most dramatic things I think
that American should look at
is the international covers of
time magazine. This has done
on a regular basis. Time
magazine is published all over
Newsweek, things like that. If
you look at the covers
when the tsunami, the tsunami,
but the typhoon happened in
the Philippines. Yeah. There was
like nine international additions of
the magazine. Eight of them
had the exact same cover,
concerned about the typhoon. And
the American one mentioned nothing
about the typhoon and it
had a completely different cover.
And the argument is, well,
it wouldn't sell if it
was focused on, on, you
know, important news, arguably. Yeah.
But I mean, it's not
only America. I mean, you
get this everywhere. Right. And
so anyway, he wrote this
book about, you know, how
we are like degrading as
a culture, right. And how
do we are lost in
a sea of information. Right.
And he was quoting a
guy that you probably know
this was in 1932 Aldous
Huxley wrote a book called
brave new world, where basically
he, there was this dry
called Soma. And people were
created in test tubes while
artificially created, who would have
thought back in 32, who
would think this, and there
would give them different levels
of intelligence so that, you
know, they wouldn't complain. And
people were constantly in orgy
porgies and having like sex
every day from, from small
age and taking this drug.
But everyone was happy. No
one needed books. Everyone was
happy. Right. Nobody looked outside
of the box. Everyone was
continuously, But is it, is
it some larger system that's
causing people to do that?
Like, are they being controlled?
They were being controlled. Population
was being controlled right there.
They were controlling the population
because they were worried about
overpopulation. And they were just,
you know, society was controlled
and their will. And the
powers that be, it was
called the fourteens, or basically
making sure that people wouldn't
step outside of, of this,
of this continuous entertainment. So
what Neil postman was saying
is whether, you know, we
will so worried about Orwell
and this control in this
brother, brother, you know, that
they would ban books, whether
that was really our concern
versus more of a Huxley
society, whether or not when
nobody even cares about books,
you know, That makes me
think of two different images.
The first one being the
movie Idiocracy, if you've ever
seen that, basically the is
to put it into an,
into a really simple example
of one of the opening
scenes. There's a person in
a, like a lounge chair
and he's leaned back and
he's got a giant, full
screen TV in front of
him, giant television, maybe multiple
meters long. Yeah. Except it's
entirely covered in advertising. And
the full, the actual screen
size is quite small. It's,
it's framed almost as if
it is advertised and it's
just reality TV, 24 hours
a day. And the person
has become so immensely fat
that it can't move basically.
And he's just drinking Coke
and watching his ads. And
then that makes you think
about, was it the movie?
Was it Wally? Yeah. I
remember on all of the
people that they discovered where
it was, it was a
Wally, it was one of
those movies where basically everyone
had forgotten how to walk.
They were all hovering around,
like in segways because they
were just continuing to entertain
continuously fed had absolutely no
purpose other than to just
simply be. Yeah. And, and
this is Britain back in
1932. Right. And so, so
you take his thoughts of
TV, and then now you
think about like, you know
what? We have net today.
We have Facebook, we have
Twitter. We have, well, there's
a couple of people on
Google plus, you know, it's
like, yeah, there's so much
information coming. And you know,
there was recently a blog
post, which was the 29
steps of a Twitter storm,
which is basically someone does
something wrong. Someone says, Oh,
this is bad. Someone else
retweets, it, someone gets angry
at famous people, hooks onto
it. The politicians get wind.
And this whole, you know,
storm goes on and the
next day something absolutely new
comes once we got it.
And someone invented a hashtag,
you know, and that's it.
And you know, No actual
action as a curtain, nothing
is fixed. There's been a
couple of petitions, but nobody
follows up with the petitions.
You know what I'm saying?
And that's, that's kind of
like what, we're, where we've,
we, we're kind of heading,
which is, it's just like,
you know, everything's becoming relevant
to us. You know what
I'm saying? What do we
do to fix that? A
buddy of mine saw someone
sitting in a, a line
in a queue and he
said he didn't have his
phone out. I hope he's
okay. So I've actually been
consciously, it's a tiny thing,
but I've been consciously trying
when waiting in line in
the queue to put my
phone in my pocket and
just sit there and just
be like, we were five
years ago before the iPhone
was invented. We've forgotten how
to do that. So how
do we fix it? Well,
I mean, there's, you know,
I'm, I'm trying to take
those little steps myself, right.
And they're little steps, but
what I'm, what I'm trying
to think is, you know,
with all this information that
we have and with what
we're seeing in the world,
how can we actually try
and do good right. Use
this information, use this, you
know, the next big thing
is big data, right? Use
this for, Are you thinking
in the context of charitable,
Not, not only charitable works,
I'm trying to figure out
how us, so here's the,
here's the thing. I mean,
to boil this down, what
the does this got to
do with all of us?
I feel that as developers,
we have had quite a
good, you know, a good
position and are quite responsible
for a lot of the
innovation that's happened. Right. Because
a lot of the hardware
innovation has been accompanied by
software innovation. So we are,
you know, we are at
a very good position right
now, right. In society to
influence society, to influence. And
what I want to know
is, what I feel is
that I think that we're
partially also responsible in shaping
society. Okay. Software engineers, software
engineers. Right. So what I'm
starting to question is why
are we doing some things
and how can we do
some things? And instead of
just saying the model of
change, the world actually help
the world. Okay. So what
are some things that you
think we're doing that unhealthy?
You said like just making
random photo sharing and like
social apps, like chasing the
dollar, The dollar. Right. Ultimately
it comes down to if,
if, if our model has
become, you know, all I
want to do is, you
know, come up with an
idea, get a million people
signed up and sell it
off to some VC. I
mean, what have I done?
Right. What have I, You
looked out for yourself, you've
a million books. Yeah. But,
you know, and that's very
respectable. I I've got a
family, you've got a family
and we all got to
take care of our family.
Right. Take care of our
own. But you know, I
want to start to look
beyond that. Right. And so,
but the problem here is
that you say, well, you
can't stifle innovation. You can't
stifle the, you know, someone
wanting to progress and, you
know, be an entrepreneur. And
I started to look on
the internet of, if there
is a possibility to try
and combine these things, you
know what I'm saying? If
there's a possibility to innovate,
to, to be, to be
everything you can, but at
the same time, trying to
help people, Wouldn't that be
something like, if I wanted
to do that, let's say
you and I have decided
to quit our jobs and
we're going to do that.
I would think that I
would go to work for
like the Gates foundation or
Warren buffet, or one of
these kinds of like massive
billionaire philanthropists and try to
make some fundamental change. Yeah.
But I don't think you
necessarily have to do that.
I think that each of
us can take little steps
to help. Right. I don't
think that I have to
come on, quit my job
and go and do something
else because it would be
very preaching and hypocritical than
me to sit here and
say, okay, well, but wait,
you're working for JetBrains selling
tools. And, and you're telling
us that, you know, we
should do something more valuable,
but I think that each
of us as an individual,
we should help at least,
at least start to think
about this. Right. Let's boil
it down into something actionable.
So I started to look
on the internet and I
started to see some of
these things. Like, for example,
you mentioned that that project,
and I started to find
entrepreneurs that had, for example,
there was, there's a there's
this organization in Africa that
has, there were two guys
seeing that people that had
AIDS and diseases right. Were
waiting months to get any
kind of medication because of
the bureaucracy. So they put
their knowledge to use. They
made a system that allowed
the government to process data
faster so that these people
can get their medicine faster.
There's another guy that I
met recently that has set
up a company in, in
India that she's using the
simple concept of text messages
because in India, you know,
it's hard for people to
buy fresh fruit. It's expensive.
So what they do is
they coordinate via text messages.
When they get enough people
to want to buy fresh
fruit, the supplier comes in,
sells and fresh fruit at
a lower rate. They get
fresh food at a fraction
of the price, right? And
these are ways that, you
know, we can actually use
this vast infrastructure that we
have. There's so much information
that we have to try
and improve the lives of
those that really need it.
You know, I mean, recently
you saw Twitter had like,
you know, sulfide on a
wall, whatever it's been valued
at whatever. I mean the
IPO of Twitter and you
go to, sorry, not solid.
The IPO has gone public
and you've been San Francisco.
You walk down market street.
Twitter is, you walk down
two blocks. It's almost people
it's homeless people. It's drug
addicts. It's, it's, it's just
like, you know, that, that
whole concept of, you know,
entrepreneurs create money that trickles
down and gives investment to
the, to the, to others.
Right. It doesn't, it doesn't
work in the San Francisco
that I've seen in indeed.
San Francisco is one of
the most dramatic examples of,
of, of literally seeing, you
know, billionaires stepping over the
homeless as they kind of
on their way to work.
And it's been, it is
difficult to see. So, you
know, I don't, I don't
know. I mean, I don't
have the answers of saying,
you know, what is the
next immediate action that we
can take? I I'm, I'm
starting to, you know, I've,
I've been doing a couple
of things myself in the
ways I can help, but
I'm not saying that we
should stop what we're doing.
What I'm starting to, what
I'm saying is that we
should start to ask why,
why are we doing it?
And how, instead of just
saying, I'm changing the world,
I'm making the next startup
to change the world is
how can I actually help
those that Now, do you
think this is work that
we're supposed to do on
the side? Like you work
for JetBrains. I work for
Microsoft. Do we do that?
Like now I do open
source on the side. Maybe
I should be talking to
charities, helping them data. Mine
do open source. That is
in a, in a directed
way, I think. Yeah. I
think that this is something
that I'm personally doing on
the side. And, you know,
if I, if I can
do more, I can do
more. If, if one day
I get to do more,
that I can impact more
people's lives. I'll be happy
because ultimately that, I think
that that's one of the
biggest fulfillment someone can have
is how you impact other
people's lives. So when you
put this into the context
of what we originally talked
about, which was the idea
of what our software engineers
are gonna be doing in
the next five years, 10
years, I keep hearing you
come back to the idea
of data and helping those
that are underprivileged, get information
and access to services that
maybe they didn't already have.
It seems to me like,
like connecting people is one
aspect of this, you know,
like whether it be messages
or low bandwidth or enabling
older devices to do things
that don't mean they couldn't
do before. And then there's
also providing context to people
that, that is trapped in
some database somewhere, you know,
connecting, whether it be marketplaces
like a fruit vendor in
one country with a fruit
vendor in the next city
over, or whether it be
just fixing, fixing a broken
bureaucracy so that someone could
get in line, of course,
healthcare.gov.gov is not a good
example of that. But there's
more examples. I mean, there's,
there's another site that basically
connects fortune 500 companies with
skilled workers that are out
of a job right. In
the U S right. And
you sign up, you say,
I've got this skill and
the fortune 500 company that
avoiding gooses, everything goes directly
to you and says, okay,
here, I've got this job
for you. I want it
this right. Whatever dumb. Right.
There's, there's so many ways
I'm just saying we should
start to think a little
bit. And you know, and
the other day, you know,
this is again, combined with
the fact that all we're
doing is innovating, innovating, innovating,
innovating, and wondering, where is
this going? Right. Because like
I was in Minneapolis recently
on a stopover, I step
out of the airport and
I see the restaurants in
the terminal, everyone with us,
every table with twine, iPads,
right. Two iPads. And I'm
like, okay, these people like
to surf. Like I looked
it up every restaurant there
actually, as I walked, had
iPads, Is this a thing
that the airport does for
their restaurants? Or, Well, turns
out that basically what they've
done is they've put iPads
there. Not only for people
to serve, but to make
orders. So you sit at
the table, you make your
order, and then you go,
you collect your food or
whatever, and you can serve
and you pay that. How
many waiters do we just
put out of a job?
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah. I don't know if
that's innovation, that's just kind
of rearranging deck chairs on
the Titanic, but yeah. That
does have an impact on
people. Yeah. That's a funny
one. I think that I
could see, I could see
arguments both ways, like when
someone goes and does something
like that and you say,
Hey, look, it's innovation. Well,
you know, how many, how
much, how many tons of
Silicon silicone, a Silicon rather
we're pulled out of the
earth to make an iPad
and then, you know, put,
put 20 of them there.
So that one person doesn't
have to be a service
worker. Yeah. I don't know
if that's innovation. What I
would like to see as
far as innovation is little
stuff. Like I'd like to
see us look us, the
people from the U S
look overseas. Like one of
the things that I love
when I'm overseas going to
movies is assigned seating to
a movie. You know what
I mean? In the States,
it's every man for himself
and that's not a technical
innovation. That's just a one
country does it. And it
works. And we don't, we
don't do it. I'm surprised
that we aren't looking to
other countries for whether it
be, how does Denmark do
transportation or how does this
country do, how they're service
workers, things like that, and
then change the system for
the better, like, why don't
we look to all the
different countries that have things
that work and then bring
them over here? You know,
you, you see That from
an American perspective and yeah.
And a lot of things
you're right. But I live
in Spain and I see
a lot of things like,
why don't we do, you
know, like this is a
solved problem in the U
S so this is all
funded. I travel a lot
other things that you can
bring to Spain to change
how things work there. Oh
yeah. There's, there's quite a
few beginning with, I would
say, you know, and you
know, my, my, my, your
Spanish audience and, you know,
I've been living there 30
years. So to all practical
effects, I consider myself Spanish.
Right. But, you know, I
think that as a tourist
country, that you know, is
primary thing is, is tourism
industry is tourism. We should
have a better idea of
what service is. So just
starting by that, Do you
think that's something that's how
that might sound like the
podcast is taking a bit
of a turn, but wouldn't
you say though, that if,
if somehow service, you know,
quality service, culture and pride
in work at was ingrained
in all of the different
service workers of Spain, then
over a course of years,
people would get the attitude.
Like, man, Spain is so
friendly and everyone is so
nice. And so kind, and
then that all adds up
to a better economy. It's
not that, no. I mean,
don't get me wrong. Spanners
on unfriendly, Spanish, some of
the friendliest people on world
in the world. And they're
very caring. I, but I've
been there 30 years and
I've seen the service in
terms of customer service go
from absolutely rubbish to, okay.
We're eventually starting to get
somewhere. You know what I
mean? Until 10 years ago
he wanted to go return
something. They're like, what do
you mean return it? I've
got the rest. I don't
care. You got the receipt,
you bought it, you left
the shop it's over. So
I think every country can
learn from any other country.
Really. I don't, you know,
I don't want to say
that this is a problem
that is unique to, to
a specific country. Yeah. Well,
we're just using the examples
cause that's what we know.
Yeah. So, so I mean
to say basically what I'm
just thinking is how I
want to think about why.
And I want to think
about how I can improve,
help people that are not
having a great time right
now. Well, the things that
I try to do and
I keep coming back cause
I have young kids. And
as I keep coming back
to education and opportunity, I
want as many kids or,
and, and, or adults, people
to have an opportunity to
find out what it feels
like to build, to make.
I think we should have
more makers and fewer consumers.
I mean, consuming is fun.
I love TV. I watch
a lot of TV, but
I'm a competent creator. And
I think that right now,
the ratio of creators to
consumers is a little bit
skewed. And I like the
idea of taking someone who
has absolutely no context about
what a software engineer does
and say, let's try to
code something for an hour
and then see if they
get the bug. I'm not
thinking that we're going to
suddenly convert millions and millions
of people, but from an
opportunity perspective, you could take
a, an eight year old
girl and she could go,
I never thought about it
this way. And then boom,
you've just created a software
engineer or it could be
a 65 year old retired
auto worker. And for some
fraction of people it's going
to click and they're going
to go, Whoa, I just
found a new, I just
discovered a new thing. I
discovered that coding and creation
is what I want to
do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. From
a creative point of view.
I think that that's a,
that's, that's, that's a noble
cause to do, but I'm
personally, you know, while I
think that learning how to
program and that is fantastic
and I love it and
I wish that my kids
would program, you know, I
think all of us as
fathers dream that our kids
come and say, Oh, look
that I just wrote this
in JavaScript, JavaScript when I
just wrote this. But I
don't think it's realistic to
want every kid to program
either. Yeah. It's about, it's
about opportunity. Like for example,
growing up, and this is
going a little silly, but
growing up, I never tried
ballet. I don't know if
I'm an expert ballerina. That's
a silly thing to say.
Right. But the point would
be that you want your
kids to have as many
opportunities as possible to try
something. And I was talking
to a gentleman in Australia
here, big kind of rugby
looking guy, Australian football rules
type person. And he said
that his son is going
to be a professional ballerina.
And I chucked the heck
out of me. And he
said, well, yeah, he just,
one day he saw it
on TV. And he says,
I want to try that.
We signed him up at
the local thing four years
later. He's like in Canada
and he's learning at one
of the greatest ballet videos.
And it's just one of
those things like you just
never would have known. And
there's some parallel universe out
there where this individual, this
little boy never had that
opportunity. And whether it be
ballet or baseball or coding,
I, again, I don't think
you're going to create a
nation of coders. Yeah. We
don't need a nation of
Cocos Island. I definitely think
that we need a nation
of thinkers. Yeah. And I
think coding is a great
on ramp to, to thinking
and then bringing it around,
arguably a great on ramp
to social change, into improving
lives for people everywhere. Yeah.
Kind of things like Khan
Academy and Coursera and the,
these are doing like again,
helping people that, you know,
there are how many people
in the U S right
now have debts because of
what they had to pay
for college education. It's a
huge number. It's huge number.
And if we're helping people
get educated for free or
a very minimum cost, that
again is helping those that
are really in need. So
I'm just saying that a
software developers, I think it's
time for us to little
bit, think a little bit
deeper about why we're doing
certain things and how we
can improve things for, I
think I want to go,
I think I'll look on,
look online. There surely must
be a marketplace that connects
charities who need help with
coders to do it. They've
got the, you know, the,
what do they call it?
These code camps, not, not
the code camps, the gift
camps. Yes, exactly. Let's give
camp, but I, I think
there are a couple, there
there's actually, it was some
of the dotnet folks that
did this site where you
could contribute to certain projects
that were helping people in
Africa and third world countries.
So there are there be,
I mean, that's The thing
I found so many, so
many people doing things that
help, but they don't get
the coverage on tech crunch
and on Reddit and things.
Yeah. It isn't, it is
a shame. Someone gets a
new, a round of funding
from a VC all over
the place. And I think
that there are, you know,
there are people who are,
who are doing good work.
And I had a couple
of folks on the show
that I'll put in the
show links that are, are
doing work and getting paid
pennies for it, but it's
moving society forward and they're
using code and we should
give them more coverage. We
absolutely should. Yeah. Thanks so
much, Heidi, for chatting with
me today. Thank you so
much. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.